---
author: "Mohamed Moussaoui"
title: "The best and only Louvre museum route you need (1/2)"
date: "2024-05-11"
slug: "the-best-and-only-louvre-museum-routes-you-need-1"
hero_image: "../../images/louvre_routes_1_hero.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A grey and white pitbull wading happily in a pool"
hero_image_credit_text: "Anthony Duran"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://www.thetimes.co.uk/imageserver/image/%2Fmethode%2Ftimes%2Fprod%2Fweb%2Fbin%2Fe9cef700-e54f-11eb-afdb-c7b01afbcfc5.jpg?crop=2520%2C1680%2C0%2C0"

---
The Louvre, in addition to looking simply incredible with its 17th century French renaissance architecture, holds the most impressive and richest art collection you will ever find in a museum. It is today one of the most visited places in the world, and each day some 25 000 visitors, mostly tourists, penetrate its intimacy looking for the so-called Louvre experience. The Louvre is 210 000 square meters of cultural heritage, spanning over hundreds of rooms interconnected in the most French way possible. So, in order to optimize their visit of the Mona Lisa owner, some people choose to pay for a tour and submit to their tour guide's pathing preferences, while others would sooner get lost between its walls alone, delegating the responsibility of finding the museum's Chefs d'œuvre to luck and panels. Being an amateur of museums myself, I have to admit that both solutions provide their own perks, fit different kind of people, and are *in fine* situational. For example, if your goal is to learn the most about the art pieces, having a tour guide is undoubtedly the preferred choice, but if time is not of the essence for you and you would rather take your time and enjoy some independance as you walk across centuries-old corridors, then you should definitely favour the free access. But there is actually a third option one usually forgets to consider: you could enjoy the freedom of solo visiting while experiencing the best the museum has to offer by following a **predefined route**, ie: a series of steps arranged in a fashion that when followed allows for maximum art discovery and maximum autonomy within a rational time window. The Louvre itself suggests on its official website some routes for its visitors, they are in my opinion very good but aren't really informative and can arguably be considered too restrictive. Having been in the Louvre one too many times, I thought I could come up with one or two routes of my own that (I hope) do not completely suck, this is what I am sharing with you in this article.

The routes I'm suggesting are destined to everyone, but more specifically to whoever is planning to visit the Louvre in the near future and wants to have the fullest experience in a reasonable time frame, say not more than 2 to 3 hours (because yes, you cannot and should not spend the entirety of your Paris trip in a museum, am I right ?).

Since we are talking about the largest art museum in the world, I couldn't think of a unique route that could singlehandedly cover all of the Louvre's main masterpieces in the aforementioned time window (after all, I wouldn't want any of you to come out of the museum then feel betrayed after coming across a picture on the internet of a major Louvre chef d'œuvre that was absent in my route). Instead I thought it would be best to suggest two routes, each exploring different art pieces from different cultures and civilizations, with both taking anything from 1h30 to 2h30 of museum hiking. If you had to pick only one of these two, I would strongly suggest going for the first route, especially if it's your first time in this fantastic place and you are very eager on discovering the famous pieces that give the Louvre its grandiose reputation. The first route focuses on the Denon wing of the museum, which includes famous paintings such as the Mona Lisa and La Liberté guidant le Peuple, as well as renown sculptures like The Dying Slave and Niké. The second route explores more niche and (sadly) underrated collections, belonging to the ancient near east and egyptian civilizations.

The present article is dedicated to the first route. You can check out the second one here.

# Step 1: entering the Louvre and the Denon wing
